NXDRIVE-2561: Write the custom metrics documentation (#1757)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/client-apps/nuxeo-drive/nuxeo-drive-metrics-documentation.md

---
title: Nuxeo Drive metrics
description: Nuxeo Drive custom metrics documentation.
tree_item_index: 900
review:
  comment: 'release'
  date: '2021-03-30'
  status: ok
toc: true
---

> In the Nuxeo Drive [release 5.1.0](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-drive/blob/master/docs/changes/5.1.0.md) usage metrics have been added using custom HTTP headers. Those metrics are sent to the Nuxeo platform, exclusively when the application calls specific operations or endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Nuxeo Drive 5.1.0 usage metrics have been added using custom HTTP headers. Those metrics are sent to the Nuxeo platform exclusively when the application calls specific operations or endpoints.
```

On this page, you will find the details about these metrics and their content.

> Some of these metrics are marked with the `ASYNC` tag, meaning that they are sent in a specific process to avoid spamming the platform with too many requests. More documentation about this can be found in the [Nuxeo Drive asynchronous metrics](#Nuxeo-Drive-asynchronous-metrics) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of these metrics are marked with the `ASYNC` tag, meaning that they are sent in a specific process to avoid spamming the platform with too many requests. More documentation about this can be found in the [asynchronous metrics](#asynchronous-metrics) section.
```

> # Nuxeo Drive headers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# HTTP Headers
```

> Nuxeo Drive custom metrics are sent under JSON format into 2 distinct headers that are `NX-metric-drive-global` and `NX-metric-drive-request`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom metrics are sent under JSON format into two distinct headers that are `NX-metric-drive-global` and `NX-metric-drive-request`.
```

> Nuxeo Drive custom metrics are sent under JSON format into 2 distinct headers that are {{NX-metric-drive-global}} and {{NX-metric-drive-request}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nuxeo Drive custom metrics are sent under JSON format into 2 distinct headers that are `NX-metric-drive-global` and `NX-metric-drive-request`.
```

## `NX-metric-drive-global`

> This header is sent with each request to the platform, and  contains generic information about the Drive installation, configuration and the Operating System.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This header is sent for each and every requests to the platform and contains generic information about the Nuxeo Drive installation, configuration and operating system.
```

> ### Available metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Available Metrics
```

> #### `installation.- type`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `installation.type`
```

Description: TBD
- Example: `null`
- type: `str`

#### `execution.profile`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

#### `execution.session.uid`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

#### `metrics.custom`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `metrics.ga`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `metrics.sentry`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `updater.channel`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

#### `execution.locale`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

#### `os.machine`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

#### `os.locale`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

## `NX-metric-drive-request`

> This header is sent with each request to the platform, and contains usage and behaviour information about Nuxeo Drive features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This header is sent for specific requests only and contains usage and behaviour information about Nuxeo Drive features.
```

> This header will be sent with each request to the platform, and will contain usage and behaviour informations about Drive features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This header will is sent with each request to the platform, and contains usage and behaviour information about Nuxeo Drive features.
```

> ### Direct Edit metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Direct Edit
```

#### `directEdit.conflict.hit`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `directEdit.recovery.hit`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `directEdit.error.count`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `directEdit.save.count`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

> ### Direct Transfer metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Direct Transfer
```

#### `directTransfer.session.number`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `directTransfer.duplicate.file.behavior`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

#### `directTransfer.option.newFolder`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `directTransfer.session.status`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

> Synchronization metrics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Synchronization
```

#### `sync.error.label`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

#### `sync.action`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `sync.time`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

> ### Other metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Other
```

#### `app.crashed.hit`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

#### `app.crashed.trace`

Description: TBD
- type: `str`
- Example: `null`

#### `filters.syncRoot.count`

Description: TBD
- type: `int`
- Example: `null`

> # Nuxeo Drive asynchronous metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Asynchronous Metrics
```

> Some of custom the metrics are calculated asynchronously over a period of time and thus cannot be sent directly to the server.</br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of the metrics are calculated asynchronously over a period of time and thus cannot be sent directly to the server.</br>
```
I guess it's just the headers that are custom.

> This metrics are sent to the `/site/api/v1/me` endpoint once calculated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These metrics are sent to the `/site/api/v1/me` endpoint once calculated.
```

> To avoid spamming the endpoint too much and causing performance issues, Nuxeo Drive sends these metrics in a batch every 15 minutes (not configurable).</br>

Reviewer: We added the "private" `custom_metrics_poll_interval` option (in seconds). Maybe should we talk about it here?

> If the user wants, this process can be deactivated through the Nuxeo Drive configuration using [this](https://doc.nuxeo.com/client-apps/nuxeo-drive/#custom-metrics) option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process can be deactivated through the configuration using the [custom-metrics](https://doc.nuxeo.com/client-apps/nuxeo-drive/#custom-metrics) option.
```

> If the user want, this process can be deactivated throught the Nuxeo Drive configuration using [this](https://doc.nuxeo.com/client-apps/nuxeo-drive/#custom-metrics) option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the user wants, this process can be deactivated through the Nuxeo Drive configuration using [this](https://doc.nuxeo.com/client-apps/nuxeo-drive/#custom-metrics) option.
```

On this page, you will find the details about these metrics and their content.

{{#> callout type='note' }}
Most metrics are sent in real-time, directly attached to the request made against the appropriate endpoint or operation.

Some of them are sent asynchronously to the `/site/api/v1/me` endpoint every 15 minutes (default value). This can be changed with the `custom-metrics-poll-interval` option (expressed in seconds).

That asynchronous process can be disabled through the configuration using the [custom-metrics](https://doc.nuxeo.com/client-apps/nuxeo-drive/#custom-metrics) option.
{{/callout}}

Custom metrics are sent under JSON format into two distinct headers that are:</br> [`NX-metric-drive-global`](#nx-metric-drive-global) and [`NX-metric-drive-request`](#nx-metric-drive-request).

## `NX-metric-drive-global`

This header is sent for each request to the platform and contains generic information about the Nuxeo Drive installation, configuration and operating system.

### Available Metrics

> - `execution.locale`: Drive selected language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `execution.locale`: Selected language in Nuxeo Drive settings.
```

> - `execution.profile`: Profile of execution (`private` for qa/dev/sources otherwise `public`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `execution.profile`: Profile of execution (`private` for QA/dev people otherwise `public`).
```

> - `execution.session.uid`: Unique uuid generated at Drive startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `execution.session.uid`: Unique identifier generated at Nuxeo Drive startup.
```

- `installation.type`: Installation type (`system-wide` or `user-only`).
- `metrics.custom`: Custom metrics are enabled.
- `metrics.ga`: Google Analytics is enabled.
- `metrics.sentry`: Sentry is enabled.
- `os.locale`: Operating System locale.
- `os.machine`: The machine type (e.g. `i386`).
- `updater.channel`: Current update channel.

## `NX-metric-drive-request`

This header is sent for specific requests only and contains usage and behavior information about Nuxeo Drive features.

### Direct Edit

> - `directEdit.conflict.hit` (async): A conflict has been encountered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `directEdit.conflict.hit` (async): A conflict has been encountered while sending updates to the server.
```

> - `directEdit.error.count` (async): Number of errors during a file edition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `directEdit.error.count` (async): Errors count occured while uploading changes to the server.
```

> - `directEdit.recovery.hit` (async): A file has been recovered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `directEdit.recovery.hit` (async): The file has been recovered from a previous Direct Edit session.
```

> - `directEdit.save.count` (async): Number of save done while editing a file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `directEdit.save.count` (async): Saves count done while editing the file, e.g.: how many times the user hit CTRL-S or COMMAND-S.
```

### Direct Transfer

- `directTransfer.duplicate.file.behavior`: File duplicate creation option (`create|ignore|override`).

> - `directTransfer.option.newFolder`: A new remote folder is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `directTransfer.option.newFolder`: The new remote folder option was used for that session.
```

- `directTransfer.session.number`: The session number.
- `directTransfer.session.status` (async): Final session status (`cancelled|done`).

### Synchronization

- `sync.action` (async): Event that triggered the transfer (`remotely_created|locally_modified|...`).

> - `sync.error.label` (async): Lower-case error label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sync.error.label` (async): Lower-cased error label that happened when processing the document.
```

- `sync.time` (async): Time between the event trigger and the end of the action, in nanoseconds.

### Other

- `app.crashed.hit` (async): The app crashed during the previous run.

> - `app.crashed.trace` (async): The application crash stack trace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `app.crashed.trace` (async): The application crash stack trace, when available.
```

> - `filters.syncRoot.count` (async): Synchronization roots count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `filters.syncRoot.count` (async): Enabled synchronization roots count.
```

---
title: Nuxeo Drive metrics
description: Nuxeo Drive custom metrics documentation.
tree_item_index: 900
review:
  comment: 'release'
  date: '2021-03-30'
  status: ok
toc: true
---

Starting with Nuxeo Drive 5.1.0 usage metrics have been added using custom HTTP headers. Those metrics are sent to the Nuxeo platform exclusively when the application calls specific operations or endpoints.

On this page, you will find the details about these metrics and their content.

---

Some of these metrics are marked with the `ASYNC` tag, meaning that they are sent in a specific process to avoid spamming the platform with too many requests. More documentation about this can be found in the [asynchronous metrics](#asynchronous-metrics) section.

> ---

Reviewer: {{#> callout type='note' }}
Most metrics are sent in real-time, directly attached to the request made against the specific endpoint or operation.

Some of them sent asynchronously to the `/site/api/v1/me` endpoint every 15 minutes (default value). This can be changed with the `custom-metrics-poll-interval` (in seconds) option (experimed in seconds).

That asynchronous process can be disabled through the configuration using the [custom-metrics](https://doc.nuxeo.com/client-apps/nuxeo-drive/#custom-metrics) option.
{{/callout}}

And remove the whole async section at the bottom.

# HTTP Headers

Custom metrics are sent under JSON format into two distinct headers that are `NX-metric-drive-global` and `NX-metric-drive-request`.

## `NX-metric-drive-global`

This header is sent for each and every requests to the platform and contains generic information about the Nuxeo Drive installation, configuration and operating system.

### Available Metrics

> - `installation.type`: description

Reviewer: Sort metrics by name.

- `execution.profile`: description
- `execution.session.uid`: description
- `metrics.custom`: description
- `metrics.ga`: description
- `metrics.sentry`: description
- `updater.channel`: description
- `execution.locale`: description
- `os.machine`: description
- `os.locale`: description

> 

Reviewer: Remove inconsitent blank lines. One is sufficient everwhere.
